Introduction

A.1 Background
    The state of Pennsylvania has struggled against opioid addiction in recent years. Between an increase in the availability of pharmaceutical opioid's and the extremely addictive nature of street drugs, such as heroin and fentanyl, opioid overdose is becoming more and more widespread. Opioid's can be powerful painkillers and offer many people relief when properly prescribed and dosed. However, the risk of even pharmaceutical opioid addiction is so great that many can get hooked within the first few doses. Opioid addiction is tough to overcome, but many don't get the chance. The risk of overdose is notably higher with opioid's, especially when fentanyl or heroin is involved. The aim of my project is to help shine a light on how widespread and dangerous opioid abuse is becoming in Pennsylvania, and hopefully find trends in the data to predict future at-risk demographics. 
  
A.2 Problem
     The aim of this analysis is to determine if characteristics of drug overdose patients can be used to predict future at-risk individuals. In analyzing the common drug types, age groups of patients, ethnicity and gender information, and survival rates of different counties in Pennsylvania, I hope to find correlations that can help shine light on how widespread and dangerous opioid abuse has become in the area.
     
A.3 Interest
    My family recently lost a member due to opioid overdose and shook our world almost as much as Covid did. I want to try to honor them and also spread awareness of drug abuse and how close to home it can be, even if you can't see it clearly.
     
Data

B.1 Data Sources
    All of the open data used in this project is available to the public on the website https://data.pa.gov. The project contains data pertaining to medical records of overdose victims from the years 2018 to 2021. Additionally, the project uses a GeoJSON of Pennsylvania county lines to help visualize the data.
    
B.2 Data Cleansing 
    The first step taken in cleansing the dataset was to drop columns in the dataframe that contained duplicate data. The columns pertaining to latitude and longitude data were repeated twice, with one set being labeled the victim's location and the other the incident's location. I decided to merge these as the data all pertains to victims who overdosed in hospital settings, and therefore all the data in both sets was mirrored. I dropped any columns related to dosage counts, as well as text data related to revival methods and outcomes. This was due to early feature selection and deciding to use data related to more generalized groups. The last step I took on the initial data was to rename a lot of the data columns to shorten and make the more clear. 
    The first edits I made to the data involved reformatting data in each column categorically and parsing the data to category types. A lot of the analysis in this project is based on categorical data, so I encoded a lot of the text data into logical bins and groups. This mainly involved replacing Y and N strings with T or F strings. I also created a new age group to merge the 0-9 and 14-Oct data into one singular 0-14 age range. Finally, I added an ID column to better separate the initial dataframe.
    
B.3 Grouping
    After renaming and encoding the data, I grouped the data by county, drug type, weekday, gender, coordinates, age range, and survival rates. I created new dataframes all based on these groups and their prevalence in each county of Pennsylvania. This involved taking the data and counting the amount of occurances for each categorical type. The new dataframes were also re-indexed and columns re-named for brevity.
    
Methodology

Results

Discussion

Conclusion